---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---

> TL;DR: I’m Peter and I like to make things with code. Starting this August I’ll
> be at Google in London for some time.

<div id="about-image">
	<img src="/images/about/mac.jpeg" alt="Me again."/>
	<br>
</div>

I’m Peter, $\sqrt{324}$ years old and I really love how computer science enables
me to solve problems and leave an impact on the world. I’m especially fascinated
by machine learning, data science, database engineering and any kind of
application development.

What I call fun is coming up with an idea for a project that solves a problem
and coding away. By preference I’ll use C++ or Python for that, although I love
how being open minded and learning a new technology can lead to even better
results. I’m a fanatic about code style and quality and I really enjoy great
software engineering, from design patterns to debating about what algorithms or
data structures to use. I think code should be more than what it does. In that
sense code is a lot like a sandwich. It should do its job of filling you, but
isn’t it much nicer when the sandwich is well organized and looks pretty too?

I’m currently a first year CS student at Technical University of Munich. In my
spare time (haha) I work on smart, unsupervised energy-monitoring algorithms at
the Institute of Networked and Embedded Systems at the University of Klagenfurt
and on inter-process communication techniques at the Chair for Database Systems
at Technical University of Munich.

Starting this August I’ll be spending seven months doing back-to-back
software-engineering internships in London. The first three months I'll be at
Google, working on a platform to visualize Google's ad technologies. After a
good 48 hours vacation (i.e. the weekend) I'm then doing another 4 months at
Bloomberg R&D. When I'm back in Munich I'll have another part-time gig at
Helmholtz Institute for Computational Biology, working on biological deep
learning.

I'm more online than outside really, so you can find me in
[lots of places](http://www.goldsborough.me/contact). I love and live
open-source, so you’ll find my second home to be Github
([github.com/goldsborough](http://github.com/goldsborough)). I used to ramble on
another blog, [thecodeinn.blogspot.com](http://github.com/goldsborough), where
you'll find more technology-related articles I wrote to give back to the
community. Also recently, I have given a talk at the Python Meetup in Munich on
the topic of *Deep Learning with TensorFlow*, and will be speaking again at
PyConUK 2016 in Cardiff, Wales.
